# AI and the developer ecosystem  
### Why?  
I am writing not to make this project look like it is taking advantage of the recent 'buzzwords' or trying to jump on the AI hype train.  
It is to explain, that as a developer, How I personally utilize AI and showcase my opinion on it.  
I have no shame or doubt to say openly that yes LLMs do help me in writing or reformatting code.
LLMs have become the new on demand code reviewer/ teacher we never had, for the people who self-learn and apply.  <br>
<br>
Not that I blatantly prompt and copy the code and paste it directly to make a project, but AI can be and is a very very helpful hand when you actually want efficient progress.
Lets say, I faced an issue during programming, I'll firstly read the specific docs if provided, or do a quick google search to find related issues. <br> When I fail to do so, I just copy my code and paste it for the LLM to analyse and point out the bug or  mistake. Sometimes its just that a specific tag or bracket is not closed, or the whole formatting is incorrect. AI helps me to debug a lot faster.
Not only this, but sometimes I let loose my 'morale' (Using LLMs is not immoral, its just I've felt its cheating because there's never been a 'cheatsheet' element so readily available) and get a simple piece of code generated which I need to use in my project. <br>
<br>
For example, in this specific project, I've taken help of LLMs to generate the entirety of the python code used in the `pre-processing-code` directory, because it was good to do so, instead of writing it from scratch on my own. And I can defend that, because the bigger picture in my project is trying to segregate symbols and use tesseract.js, and comparatively its a very small piece of code, so yea I used GPT and the code works flawlessly.  
People say that AI will replace jobs, but the thing is, AI can work on a smaller scale like generating code from prompts, but here the whole ideation, correction, algorithm and the working process has been generated by a human (me) and the creative aspect stays unique to humans.
I found an issue, I took inspiration and decided to make a project to solve it and contribute my part.
AI has helped me all the way at many places, but at the end all of has still originated from a developer, a human who initially planted the seed in the soil.
Using AI in relatively smaller areas of code or the project does not make you a 'copy paste monkey' but I feel it has made me very efficient.  
<br>
Also to point that we do not have to overuse it, just extreme cases when you really cannot find any piece of text related to your code on the internent which only happens when you write your code neanderthal syntax or you have been using documentation found under a rock when you are in a rainforest with your laptop.
One excellent and really impressive task which AI performs and which fairly impressed me so much is that how it generates stuff so to the point even if it is hard to find on the internet or when you are fairly new to something.
When I was trying symbol level detection in Tesseract at multiple instances of the project (PyTesseract, GIr, Tesseract.js) I was unsuccessful, but when I prompted the AI to generate code, It introduced me to the `blocks` output. And that was the point when I successfully achieved character level recognition. The documentation and example code related to that were absent in the main repo, So here AI taught me and guided me from scratch, in that topic. 
<br>
<br>
I learnt about that topic, wrote code, and it ran successfully, generating what I needed. I took some good pieces of my project and generated a pull request in the Tesseract.js repository so that in the future when someone tries to work on something similar to this, they do not have to face the countless hours of research and brain storming I had to do to come to that stage. 
<br>
Thats all I had to say about my usage of LLMs, thankyou for reading.

